# 4.1 Exercise:

## The task

Doesn't time fly? Not long ago your young turtles were the size of a screen pixel and
making quite a mess. But now they're getting ready for their first day of school!

What was the name of the school again? Where is it? It's very annoying that it doesn't
have a website!

You decide you're going to setup a basic website for the school. Maybe it'll prompt
their IT department to up their game?

As everyone knows, the key to building a top-notch website is a message saying "Under
construction" along with an animated gif.


## What you'll achieve

1) Get a website started

2) Understand that HTML is just a hierarchy of elements.


## Get started:

1) You need a text editor. Notepad on Windows, TextEdit on Mac are fine.

2) https://giphy.com/ for finding a nice gif!


## What you need to know


A completely blank webpage would contain the following HTML:

```html
<html>
    <head>
    </head>

    <body>
    </body>
</html>
```

----

A HTML "**element**" typically contains an opening "**tag**" and a closing "**tag**".

Opening tag:

```html
<head>
```

Closing tag:

```html
</head>
```

----

Things between the opening and closing tags are deemed to be a child of that element.

Take this example:

```html
<html>
    <head>
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    </body>
</html>
```

We end up with a hierarchy or tree of elements...

* The `html` element is at the top
* It contains 2 children, the `head` and `body` elements
* And the `body` element contains 1 child, the `h1` element

----

The core learning of HTML is that it's a hierarchy. Everything else is just
understanding the purpose of individual elements, such as the `h1` element.

----

The `head` element contains meta information and things which are typically not
displayed to the user.

For example we can add a `title` element inside the `head` to give the page a title
in the browser:

```html
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Turtlely Amazing School</title>
    </head>
    <body>

    </body>
</html>
```

----

The `body` element contains elements which will to be displayed to the user.

Here we've put a `h1` element inside the `body`, which will display a heading to the
user:

```html
<html>
    <head>
        <title>Turtlely Amazing School</title>
    </head>

    <body>
        <h1>Hello World!</h1>
    </body>
</html>
```

----

"gif" is pronounced "gif"

----

Using the "embed" feature of Giphy gives you some code you can copy and paste into your
site.


## Solution

* [Here](4.1-solution.md)
