# 3.1 Exercise: Party conversations

## The task

Your baby turtles are growing up fast! They're having their first sleep over and they've
invited some of their friends:

* Pinchy the Velvet Swimming Crab
* Sammy the Sea Slug
* Willy the Woodlouse
* Cuthbert the Cuttlefish

Some of the guests keep coming over to try to communicate with you, but as you're human
and they're critters you can't understand them! We need to find a way to work out what
they're saying to you!

The first guest to come up to you is Pinchy the Velvet Swimming Crab. She looks at you
directly in the eyes and taps her claws on the table very quickly. She then pauses for
a moment, and then taps again very quickly.

You decide to count the number taps between pauses, and make a note of the following:

```
84
104
101
32
77
97
116
114
105
120
63
```

But what could it mean? I wonder if crabs know ASCII?


## What you'll achieve

1) An understanding of ASCII

2) Learn the rules of number systems


## Get started:

1) You need pen and paper

2) https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pattis/15-1XX/common/handouts/ascii.html


## What you need to know

ASCII has been the standard for representing characters on computers since the 1960's.

---

Day to day, us humans use Base 10, or the "decimal" number system.

At school, you probably learnt how numbers are put together using tables like this:

| 1000 | 100 | 10 | 1 |
| ---- | --- | -- | - |
| 4    | 2   | 6  | 2 |

So the number 4,262 is put together with 4 x 1000's, 2 x 100's, 6 x 10's and 2 x 1's.

In base 10, we have 10 numbers available to us (0 - 9). So in each column we place 1
digit between 0-9.

An important thing to recognise is that going right to left, each column goes up by a
factor of 10.


## Solution

* [Here](3.1-solution.md)
