# 2.3 Exercise: Biologically correct turtle poop

## The task

Our baby turtles are having a whale of a time, and after a quick trip to the vet we've
managed to get their poop the right colour ("`hotpink`").

Make it so that every time a turtle poops, the pen colour is changed to `hotpink`.

Also, all that spinning is also making them ill! Which is causing them to go a shade
of green ("`limegreen`" to be exact), be sick and stop moving after they've spun around
too much.

Keep track of how many total degrees each turtle has turned. After a turtle passes `180`
degrees of total turning:

1) change their pen and fill colour to "`limegreen`"
2) draw some puke where the turtle is currently standing
3) and for 1 iteration: don't move them.

On the next iteration change their colour back to their original colour, reset the total
number of degrees they've turned back to `0` and allow them to move again.

You will probably want to start storing the colour, mouthfuls and total turning degrees
in a "dictionary" data structure to make things easier.


## What you'll achieve

1) An introduction to dictionaries

2) Combining lists and dictionaries for a complex data structure

3) An appreciation for the delicate health of baby turtles


## Get started:

1) Start from the code you wrote for [Exercise 2.2](2.2-exercise.md).


## What you need to know

Similar to a List, "Dictionaries" allow us to store lots of pieces of data in a single
variable. Dictionaries however allow us to set and retrieve the data by giving it a
name:

```python
baby_turtle = {
    "name": "Gandalf",
    "color": "white",
    "ninja_level": 9,
}

who_goes_there = baby_turtle["name"]
```

---

We can add items to a dictionary similar to how we retrieve data:


```python
baby_turtle = {
    "name": "Gandalf",
    "color": "white",
    "ninja_level": 9,
}

baby_turtle["likes_pizza"] = False
```

So there's no problem creating an empty dictionary and just populating it later:

```python
pizza = {}

pizza["name"] = "Marshmallows and pineapple"
pizza["yummyness"] = 2
```

---

Like Lists, Dictionaries can contain any kind of data. Including lists and other
dictionaries:

```python
pizza = {
    "name": "Carrot and Nutella Surprise",
    "yummyness": 12
    "toppings": [
        "carrot",
        "nutella",
        "whiskey",
    ],
    "reviews": {
        "Harry": "It made me go limegreen",
        "Ron": "It wasn't very round",
    }
}
```

---

And we can make lists of dictionaries:

```python
pizzas = [
    {
        "name": "Notzerella",
        "yummyness": 3,
    },
    {
        "name": "Cornwall Special",
        "yummyness": 1,
    },
]
```

---

You can use the `abs` function to make a negative number a positive:

```python
total_degrees = 0

degrees_1 = -90
degrees_2 = 45

total_degrees = total_degress + abs(degrees_1)
total_degrees = total_degress + abs(degrees_2)

# Total degrees is now 135
```

## Solution

* [Here](2.3-solution.md)
